The power of a round is determined by the mass and the velocity of the bullet. If you want your shots to hit with more force, you either need to upgrade to a bigger caliber, or switch to +P loads. Overpressure, or, +P rounds are rounds loaded with a higher concentration of gunpowder, which gives the fired bullet increased stopping power; basically guaranteeing that whatever you shoot down, will stay down -- at least long enough for you to safely neutralize your target.

Advantages rarely come without disadvantages however, and +P rounds are no exception. If you're a novice shooter, the brighter flash and increased recoil might take you by surprise and cause you to flinch -- or the added stress to the firearm's mechanics might prevent the gun from cycling properly, or the casing might expand too much and get stuck in the chamber, making it harder to extract.

------------------------------

In the 1950's and 60's, postwar America faced an increased number of violent crimes and armed confrontations between gangsters and police officers. Contemporary policemen were mainly firing sidearms chambered in .38 Special, with the standard load being a 158-grain lead round-nose bullet, which had the.. *annoying* tendency to go through whatever -or whoever- it was fired at, and continue on through whatever (or whoever) happened to be standing behind, all the while failing to actually stop the intended target.

Despite making numerous complaints, cries of police unions went largely unanswered, with a few agencies attempting to introduce new .38 Special loads to combat this problem, such as the 200-grain blunt-nosed "Super Police" load, which faced the.. *opposite* problem, where the bullet had the annoying tendency where it would bounce off of targets instead of penetrating, hitting whatever or whoever happened to be nearby.

In 1972, the Federal Bureau of Investigation unveiled their new standard issue +P load, later dubbed the "FBI Load". This load contained more, (and, more powerful) gunpowder, as well as a 158-grain unjacketed all-lead semi-wadcutter *hollow-point* bullet. Those improvements, when fired from a standard law enforcement revolver, allowed the .38 Special cartridge to effectively and consistantly take down whatever (or whoever) it was fired at, and remained the primary round used by the FBI, until the mid 1980's, where a slew of tragic and deadly shootouts proved the need for higher capacity semi-automatic handguns.

------------------------------

In the American wilderness, campers and hikers are told extensively to watch out for bears, to learn bear safety techniques, as well as to carry a bear spray at all times, to dissiduade any would be killer bear from attacking. But what if you were a cowboy riding your horse through the countryside and happened to be visciously charged upon by a hungry Grizzly Bear? Luckily for you, American ammunition manufacturers have thought of this exact seemingly reoccuring problem before, and have come up with the second best bear repeller there is: the .45 Long Colt Bear Load. On top of being half as fast, the bullet is also twice as heavy as the standard .45 Long Colt "cowboy load", making it approximately 4 to 5 times more potent at taking down targets, promising a swift and spectacular end to whatever is unlucky enough to be shot with one of these.

This Bear Load is also 4 to 5 times as likely to cause your revolver to blow up in your face, unless you load it in a heavy duty revolver, with a heavy duty frame, and a heavy duty cylinder.

While standard and overpressure loads might be more useful for self-defense, we recommend novice Receivers to train using reduced-recoil loads. These loads have a lesser amount of gunpowder, and more often that not, a lighter bullet. This, as the name suggests, reduces the recoil produced by the gun when it fires. Do note however that you're not the only one affected by lower recoil, as your slide will travel slower, which might cause the feeding and ejecting mechanisms to fail. These loads are also useful for competition matches, although so called "match grade" ammo usually have a heavier bullet.

Obviously, this makes these rounds less lethal against killdrones, so make sure that you make your shots count.
